We're building a brand over time and
we're driving sales overnight.
>> Hey, my guest this week is Jessica
Serrano. She's the CMO at Bagel Brands
and she spent her entire career in
restaurant marketing at places like Taco
Bell, Burger King, and Dig In.
>> I have been in food marketing my entire
career. My first job, I was a sales rep
for Nabiscoco, building cookie and
cracker displays and grocery stores, but
eventually I found my way into fast
food.
>> We got into why consumer and B2B
marketing are way more similar than
people think. I know that's a topic you
all want to talk about. All the B2B
marketers want to be consumer marketers
and the consumer marketers want to be
B2B marketers. This is a perfect topic
for you.
>> On the B2B side, there were nuances to
the decision makers. There's the office
admin whose pain point is I'm just
trying to feed a bunch of people that
have different allergens and it's on
time and it's accurate. But then I also
had a university that wants to know if I
can do house accounts and POS. It became
clear to me like if you want to actually
do this, well, you cannot treat this
like traditional restaurant marketing.
We talk about how she's using AI across
her marketing and sales process and her
philosophy, which I love that her job is
to build the brand over time and drive
sales overnight.
>> It really transformed what was a
brick-andmortar business into an
e-commerce business whether they wanted
to or not.
>> Enjoy my conversation with Jessica
Serrano.
>> 1 2 3 4.
>> All right. Super excited because my
guest is uh Jessica Serrano. We we just
met. Uh we met because I posted a I
posted a Neo Neo the lyrics to a Neo
song on LinkedIn with no context and it
was instantly swallowed up by the AI
comments who were like, "Absolutely,
Dave. I am also so sick of love songs.
Isn't it so interesting how we don't use
answering machines anymore?" And I saw
you reposted it, which is amazing. So,
we've been talking riffing about music
and life and you're a mom of of twin
5-year-olds. Do you and you're you're
like an awesome CMO at a consumer brand.
So what the heck are you doing on my
podcast which is mostly about B2B
marketing? Can you say what you said
just behind the scenes actually?
>> Yeah, we're going to find out together.
But ultimately I mean the re the reason
that you're even in my world is because
as a B2C marketer I there's a lot that
we can learn from B2B um marketers. So
that's how I started you. So, we we do
all this content for B2B marketers and
everyone is like it's it's just so funny
because everyone wants to it's almost
like uh athletes athletes want to be
rappers, musicians, musicians and
athletes want to you know it's a vice
versa. So, it's like we all want to do
the cool stuff like consumer brands but
then here I have the CMO of a you know
30-year-old like mega mega brand in the
in the food space and you're telling me
actually so before this you were CMO at
Digin. So, so right now you're CMO at
Bagel Brands. We're going to talk a
bunch about about that, but you were you
were CMO at Digin and something
interesting happened because you're CMO
at Digin, all of a sudden COVID happens
and tell me about the shift that
happened in your in your business
basically overnight.
>> Yeah, you're right. I have been in food
marketing my entire career. I have only
sold food only. Uh my first job I was a
sales rep for Nabiscoco building cookie
and cracker displays and grocery stores,
but eventually I found my way into fast
food. I worked at Taco Bell and Burger
King both uh during CO. So in QSR co
really accelerated our business because
you couldn't eat out. So people were
going through drive-through. So that job
was trying to figure out, you know, how
do we get uh throughput through a
drive-thru and when Dig In called in
2022, they were coming out of a very
different COVID reality, which was that
dig in, for those of you who don't know,
is a fast casual chain in the northeast,
about 30 to 40 locations and very
heavily concentrated in Manhattan. It
was all office lunch, walk-in business.
And so when COVID hit, the business came
to a screeching halt. they almost didn't
survive it, but they did. They figured
out how to kind of right-size things and
get onto third-party delivery. And it it
really transformed um what was a
brick-andmortar business into an
e-commerce business whether they wanted
to or not. So, when the founder called
me in 22 and said, you know, help me to
figure out how to scale this business
for its next chapter of growth. We want
to learn from the lessons of COVID. The
first job was diversifying into other
markets. So, here was this concept that
had product market fit in an urban
setting, but did it scale to suburban
markets? And so, you know, opening the
20th Manhattan location is different
than opening the first one in Virginia.
And so, that's the journey I went on
over those years was opening seven new
markets for them, but also realizing
that there were things we could learn
from B2B because catering was a big part
of the business. So, if you think about
it, you know, you spend $15 when you
walk into a dig in, but an office admin
spends $500 on catering. And it's also
an acquisition tool. What I heard from
consumers was that sometimes their first
time eating dig in was a meal that was
catered from their office. So, that
sparked a whole big question for me
about, huh, how how could I approach
this differently than what I would, you
know, building my traditional walk-in
business?
>> Yeah. And what that's that that is so
interesting, right? Because like someone
it's like a friend if it's office lunch,
you didn't choose it, but you end up
eating it and you're like, "Oh, what was
that?" Like I'm gonna go have dig in.
I'm gonna go have cava, whatever. We
live out in the woods in Vermont right
now and I used to live in the city in
Boston and um we've had more every
everything tava dig in all those places
eat them for lunch every day that I was
so sick of them. What I would give to
have like a dig in in my area right
right now. So, so let's people people
that listen to this podcast love like
nerding. This is like a safe space to to
nerd out about the actual marketing of
stuff. And so I would love to just dig
into that that marketing approach. So
you basically go up market, go B2B
instead of selling, you know, trying to
sell one digging bowl for 20 bucks.
There's there's no way, sorry to like,
you know, speak for you because I'm not
in this industry, but there's no way in
hell a digging bowl is $15 today. I
can't even get a PB&J for $15.
You can't have real ingredients and be
$15 a day. But today uh anyway so what
what changed in the marketing approach
you mentioned like offline to me like
you know you you start thinking about
the target buyer is different HubSpot is
different you you you use something like
HubSpot what what do you actually do to
go and acquire these these caterers and
I I would love to dig in some actually
marketing plays to go market to these
companies to sell the catering the the
catering piece
>> well you mentioned Boston so that was
one of the key opportunities that I saw
was Manhattan was rebounding faster than
Boston so I'm like, huh? What is going
on in Boston? People, did people move
out of the city that never came back? I
was trying to figure it out. So, we
ended up
>> Sorry, when you say trying to figure it
out, what are you what are you looking
at? How are you what numbers are you
looking at to figure this stuff out?
>> I'm looking at average unit volume,
average transaction counts, my loyalty
numbers, trying to understand why is
this DMA underperforming the other. And
so I ended up hiring a young woman to
help me figure out catering because to
your point, I did the math and I'm like,
I can go get hundreds more $20
transactions or, you know, I can go and
get a few 500 and I I really I need to
do both, right? But I knew that I had
this kind of like short-term sales lever
if I could figure out the catering
piece. So I hired this gal and said,
"Hey, here's the list of all the lapsed
customers from Boston." I pulled it out
of the ordering platform. I'm like,
"These people used to order catering
from us and they don't anymore. go find
out why. And she did. She called them.
She emailed them. And she's like, "Some
of these people moved out of the city.
Some of their offices closed and are
fully remote." But she also found people
and said, "N, they introduced me to the
new admin or they forgot about us." And
she was able to recapture a ton of
revenue. So then naturally you go,
"Okay, how do I scale this?" So then
after showing progress with this one uh
salesperson, I ended up scaling the team
to five and having one in each market.
and we just hit an inflection point of
them going, "We can't like keep manually
pulling these email lists out of our
ordering platform. We need HubSpot." And
we had Clavio on the consumer side of
our business, right? Like we have drip
campaigns and and journeys and all of
that. So I was trying to understand like
hm, okay, why do we need this different
platform? I was not familiar with
HubSpot. I never had a reason to use it.
And so I start I also started to realize
that all my BTOC outreach was kind of
interfering with their B2B because the
overlap of those customers was real too
and I was trying to use my Clavio drips
to sell catering but that it it wasn't
right and so the team was like we got to
figure this thing out. So then we
started figuring out sequencing and
buyer personas, right? So on the B TOC
side, of course, we have consumer
targets, right? Like young office
professional, that's the digin primary
target. But on the B2B side, there were
nuances to the to the decision makers.
There's the office admin whose pain
point is, I'm just trying to feed a
bunch of people that have different
allergens and it's on time and it's
accurate. But then I also had like
nutritionists for professional sports
teams that are like, "Can you, you know,
get your product through TSA and feed
this team on a flight with these calorie
guidelines, right?" And then I'd have,
you know, like a a university that wants
to know if if I can do house accounts
and POS and taxfree
um constructs. So it became clear to me
like if you want to actually do this,
well, you cannot treat this like
traditional restaurant marketing. Yeah,
that's it's so so different. I mean,
it's so relatable to what most of our
listeners go through in like a B2B
standpoint. It's like and you you
perfectly articulated like the
complexities of B2B marketing in a way
that doesn't sound like B2B marketing.
It's the exact same thing. And in this
world, it's just more like uh there's
procurement, buying committees,
security, compliance, all these things.
You got to figure out how do the
Patriots can, you know, is dig in an
option for the Patriots on their flight
to Buffalo, you know, is that's crazy.
That's super interesting. And then our
world would be like, and then if I h I
might have the office admin, but I might
have their Gmail. I need their work.
They I'm going to behave differently. I
don't want to get a catering email to my
Gmail. Like, hit me when I'm at work.
And and here's the there's the message.
>> Yeah. So, another trick that we ended up
figuring out was that we could cross-ell
our main menu customers. So what started
somewhat manually was we would pull
marketing opted in emails of people who
ordered and we would man we would filter
out Gmail AOL anything that indicated it
was a per personal email address and we
would email people who were ordering
main menu with a work email address and
ask them for a referral to the catering
decision maker in exchange for free dig
in and this was a great conversion
tactic. It really really worked. Uh, and
then I ended up I tell you the story. I
ended up meeting these guys at a
catering conference and they like these
young guys and they were they had this
startup. They built this like catering
ordering platform and they wanted to
pitch it to me and I'm like I'm happy
with my catering order solution and
they're like, "Well, can we just would
you just indulge us and give us feedback
on our pitch as like a CMO?" Like, sure.
So, they start showing me this platform.
They're out of Canada. they just have
like a couple of customers on this
platform like people who were previously
taking orders on paper that they've, you
know, were able to convert into this
tool and then they gloss over this
feature in the product where they're
like, "Oh yeah, and by the way, we've
developed this AI automation tool that
allows you to create CRM journeys based
off of an RFM model of what's going on
in in the actual ordering platform." So,
I told them, I'm like, "You guys should
not be selling catering ordering
platform. That's a really saturated
market. It's high switching costs. It's
going to be really hard for you to make
progress on that." But your real gem in
your product is that you figured out CRM
for catering. And I can tell you as a
marketer that's trying to figure out how
to do it on my own, nobody else is doing
it. And they should be doing it. And I'm
like, you know, hope hope you're not
offended. I called your baby ugly, but
that's my feedback for you. Have a nice
day. Do with that information what you
will. And they called me a week later
and they're like, we thought about what
you said. We're you were right. Can you
be an adviser to us? And they ended up
selling off the technology, the ordering
platform technology to another company
and they're solely focused on this ARM,
this AI CRM solution specifically for
catering. And that for me also just like
accelerated my love of trying to figure
out AI and how restaurant marketers can
leverage that solution. So
>> yeah, cuz I mean all all the stuff that
you talked about, I was just thinking of
like all the digin stuff was like, yeah,
man, you had to you had to pretty much
do that before AI. Now you could ask,
you know, you could you could run all
these different queries and ask all
these questions and come up with these
different preferences.
>> Exactly. And what I what has surprised
me the most is and I'm I'm curious if if
you or your audience um relates to this
is there's still quite a bit of
hesitation from sales folks on what that
means for their job. Uh that's what I
what I didn't I was so excited to figure
out this technology and then I hit some
opposition and I think the real
underlying objection there was well if
this air is if this AI automated CRM
solution is doing this for me what does
it mean for me as a sales rep and it
wasn't about we didn't reduce the
headcount of the sales team but it was
about having them focus on nurturing
other parts of the journey of making
sure like did they have a good
experience was it on time was it
accurate as opposed to sitting at their
desk pulling,
>> you know, email addresses.
>> I mean, well, forget forget the sales
people. There's lots of thousands of
people that listen to this podcast that
are in marketing that are wondering like
what
>> what role do do we play? How does this
impact our our jobs? I mean, my my
business partner and I, Dan, we've been
like a lot of people right now, it's
like Claude, Claude, code, claude,
co-work, everything CL. We're having
some serious conversations right now
about like wait a second. These are all
things that in the past would have taken
like a lot of time or we would have had
to do this is really interesting. What
does this mean? I don't have the
definitive answer to this. I'll tell you
how I'm feeling, Jessica. like in in
this moment
I feel like the skill the AI can replace
a lot of the work but I think the skill
I try to share the prompts that I with
my team cuz I'm like I'm not like now
change it to black now make it blue make
it a little bit bigger boom you know
here it is I'm like the prompts that I'm
writing and the way that I'm interacting
with AI is like I'm taking my 15 years
of experience in marketing and I'm like
okay you're this and I'm like trying to
show it's a level of effort So, I almost
feel like I still get to be like I'm
like the puppet master now, you know?
Like I still get to have the taste, the
vision, the ideas, but I don't have to
basically now be like, "Well, I got the
idea. Now I just got to wait seven days
for my developer to like deploy this to
the website." I kind of see you nodding
along. Do you kind of you get what I'm
saying?
>> Oh, I totally relate. I mean, my my
first when I was an associate brand
manager at Taco Bell, I spent the
majority of my job, I feel like, writing
concepts. So, this might be unfamiliar.
I don't know if if if your audience um
has a similar experience, but in B TOC
and traditional CPG, when you want to
launch a queserito or whatever, right,
you actually have to
>> like the nuggets, the Taco Bell nuggets.
That's what I saw a commercial for.
>> Yes, that's the new that's the new
thing. Um you know, you have to write
out these concepts, right? And you you
do it's basically AB testing. Um, and so
you'd write all the different
positioning statements and different
price points and different naming
conventions. And I learned how to do all
of that by hand. It was a very painful
process. And of course, now, you know,
15 years later, like I can do that with
my eyes closed. And so now I don't have
to because I actually have an AI tool
where I have trained it how to write
product content.
>> What are you What are you using today?
Okay, so I I must confess I consider
myself kind of a late adopter when it
comes to technology. So I was a diehard
ChatgBT user and I kept hearing
everybody say like Claude is away,
Claude is away. So the last couple of
weeks I wasn't ready to like just fully
jump into that. I started using both and
I still was not convinced at first. So I
was like I'm still liking chat but I
think it's because like I've really
invested a lot in chat understanding me
and I hadn't you know put in that same
work on I will tell you yesterday I had
a huge breakthrough with claude I was
like holy this is what people are
talking about so it has been chat but
I'm early days in understanding the
nuances of how
>> what was the what was the breakthrough
what did you do yesterday
>> what I like about claude so chat I think
is is really we're really locked step on
my voice and copy. And so like if I if I
need to write a product concept, chat's
got me. But Claude, what I really love
about it is ability to like spin out a
financial model for you or spin up
thoughts in a deck. Just it the ability
to translate those ideas off platform
really seamlessly. Pretty impressive.
>> Yeah, there's I don't know if it's a new
model. I'm not a I like work in tech. I
I I guess probably on the compared to
the average person probably am an early
adopter, but I'm not the like the day
you could do, you know, figure out cloud
code like did I figure that out? No, I'm
not I'm not that. And it is funny. I I'm
I'm like taking notes and I'm laughing
because this literally the past week,
last Friday, every Friday we have a team
meeting and uh I was like I need to
present. I got to show like what I did
this week with Claude to the team
because we've been on Chat GPT and
Gemini and this entire week everything
has changed. our whole team is now like
using claude for so much of our our
workflows. And so I I wonder if it's
like everybody in my research on the
internet seems to be saying that it's
this new model that really works. But I
I do believe everyone on this podcast
and others has said that for marketing
work, writing,
strategy type of stuff. Claude seems to
just they're they're the way the water
over there in that town, the way that
you know how they say like the New York
bagels taste better, you know, because
of the water. something just something
about the way they make it over there I
think just leans it lends itself better
to marketing but at the same time I'm
also like man the the way that all of
this is like moving so fast like do we
even need to learn any of these things
or is it all just going to eventually
become like one super model and whether
it's chatgbt or anthropic like aren't
you just going to be able to
>> build the next you know Einstein
brothers website like just through chat
GBT like I would take that bet right now
>> 100% I know I spent my Saturday trying
to figure out claude code and I didn't
make as much progress as I would have
hoped and I'm like
>> hold on we got to we got to we pause on
this. There's a lot of parents that
listen to this and the vibe what what
I've been joking is like because I like
to do some posts sometimes, right?
And so I wrote the I wrote uh like my
like my Neo1 I guess was kind of in that
area, but last week I wrote like how I
ignored my wife. I ignored my kids all
weekend because dad was just in the
other room, you know, like doing, you
know, working with Claude and like uh I
made I made my webinar emails five times
more efficient. But hey, at least my
family, you know, hates me now. When did
you do when did you actually do this in
the life of a mom with twin 5-year-olds?
Did you tell tell me your actual
weekend? I need to know.
>> Well, I had leverage because my husband
traveled all last week for work, which
was very, you know, anytime that
happens, I'm always like, shout out to
solo parents because, you know, doing it
for a week was hard and some people do
it all the time. So, respect. So, he
said, "You have the weekend to yourself
because of my trip." So, like a dork,
>> you are one of us. One of us. you. This
is so great. She had the weekend free
and she spent it with Claude. I love
that. Welcome in.
>> Yes. Yeah. Yeah. So, and I didn't make
as much progress as I wanted to on it,
but you know what? I've been But point
being, I agree with you that on the one
hand, I'm like
>> I'm I'm a very active um spectator of
folks who are more technically inclined
to take these tools and run with it. I
watch a lot of videos and listen to
podcasts of people who are playing with
things like uh what is Claudebot now or
what is it now? molt bot and um and I
think it's interesting because there's
you know for the novice like there's a
lot of security concerns and so you got
to be careful about how how you're
structuring all of these tools and so
seeing that that OpenAI just hired um
the founder of Claudebot uh is
interesting because I think that's the
next thing is who can figure out these
personal agents in a way that is more
turnkey and safe for the average
consumer. We'll see. And did did you
feel like something there did do you
feel like something bubbled up? Was it
just like you had seen so much Claude
that you're just like, man, when I get a
free m free moment, I got to just learn
this stuff and that's what led to that
weekend.
>> Yeah. And I do look for other people
that
spend their weekend building this stuff
and I attach myself to them. So, um
there's a there's a restaurant Martekch
vendor that their um CIO, he is obsessed
and using it and completely transform
the way that they're developing their
software. And it's like the number of um
roadmap updates that they're doing is
just you can see that AI has transformed
their their working method. And so I
appreciate him is because he's gotten
restaurant marketers together and he's
been doing these AI hackathons and and
I'm grateful because you know I think
like I said a lot of us got into this
business because we care about
hospitality but we're also realizing
like we don't want to get be left
behind. We want to figure this stuff
out. So there's power in getting
together and going how are you using
this and comparing notes and just
experimenting with it. So a lot of it
really was inspired by meeting with
other people in my industry that are you
you know and sharing best practices of
like use cases.
>> Nice. Good. Yeah. That that I mean
that's a common trait among many highly
successful people and CMOs I've had the
pleasure of interviewing is like this
curiosity for people listening. It's
like this is this is what it takes. It's
like Jessica's, you know, already got
the job and she's got a family and she's
got life and but she's like I'm finding
some time to like to learn this stuff.
And I think that's that is what it
takes. I also think there's a huge gap
between at least for me when I watch I I
I'm in I'm in I'm watching the videos
I'm learning but I have to do it myself
until it doesn't really click until I
actually do it myself and I actually use
it. I I think one of my biggest
frustrations with the AI stuff right now
is I do think it's cool. A lot of it
feels kind of fake and performative
though. It's like I want to I want to do
it I don't want to do it because I'm
showing everyone how cool I am and look
at me using these tools too. I want to
like do better work. I want to ship
things faster.
>> 100%. And if I could be honest with you,
I mean the real barrier where I'm
feeling stuck is uh the real unlock is
through having the integration. So sure,
if you're a founder and you are setting
up your own cloudbot to automate
processes that you own, that's one
thing. But if you're an organization
that hasn't quite figured this out, you
you know, like the real magic, right, is
like putting the data into the system
and setting and and the integration. You
mentioned like security and stuff and
it's like right right you you run
marketing at a at a brand that has been
around for 30 years right the you cannot
just suck in all of the company data and
put it in this thing and just like put
it out into the world there's a lot of
risk there do you do you think about
that in your world
>> yeah 100% and so part of it is building
AI comfort and literacy through
safe experimentation and so in my world
it is partnering with AI first companies
that can help us set these things up in
a way that isn't exactly like Jessica
playing with it on a Saturday, right?
So, I play with it on a Saturday so that
I understand the benefits, but then
that's how I can become an advocate for
like more intentional integration. And
so one of the first tools that I started
leveraging AI in um is about market
research. And a lot of my motivation was
coming from smaller brands and realizing
that AI it can really be a great
equalizer because dig in. I didn't have
a research budget. I did at Taco Bell. I
did at Burger King. And so I found um a
company that basically created an LLM
that allows me to drive consumers into
my stores, have them try a product, and
then do a natural language. Like really,
it's like chatting with Chachi. Like you
tried the new bagel, what did you think
about it? And prior to that, you know, I
would have had to do really expensive
central location testing, you know, hire
a market research firm or like a really
static NPS survey where then afterwards
I'm like, I wish I would have asked
these other 10 questions or I have no
idea how to interpret a 4.3 out of five.
And bringing in this tool has completely
allowed us to do rapid product testing
in a way that our budgets would have
never allowed. And it was hard for
people to understand why we were
bringing a tool like this in and what
did it mean and is it going to go grock
on us and it does it is about like just
can we try it once you know like just
starting to like help wet the appetite
and then once organizations see the
benefit you know we can continue to
figure out more opportunities to
leverage this technology is not going
anywhere.
>> It's not going anywhere. And you you you
you all must do so much like
have a need for a high volume of
creative ads, you know, images and stuff
that seems like I've seen a lot of use
cases with like Claude and the Figma
connector. Like how can we take one
campaign and generate a hundred? Can you
can we actually just can you just tell
me about your life as this as a CMO of
of bagel brands? like this company runs
a bunch of different, you know, bagel
bagel conglomerates.
How does how do things work in your
world? That's what I want to know. Is it
just about like did we sell more bagels?
I got to figure there's, you know, brand
verse direct response, what channels are
you using? I I don't I don't have like
one question, but I'd love to like just
tap into like the life the life of a of
a CMO right now. Yeah, I'm about 6
months in, so still pretty early. But it
is an interesting journey because we we
do have four brands. The one that is the
largest um and probably most familiar to
your audience is Einstein Brothers,
which we have hundreds of throughout the
US, but we also have Noah's in
California, Burgers is another big
brand. And then we have Manhattan Bagels
um on the East Coast. So these are
brickandmortar brands that have been
around for 30 years where yes at at at
the most basic of basic KPIs. It's did
we sell more bagels today than we did
yesterday?
>> Ultimately if you were to zoom out and
you end up staying at this company for
years whatever the measure of that
success is going to be like did we ring
did we make the cash register ring?
>> Yes. So our language would be same store
sales and that is com a combination of
transactions and checks. Did we get more
people to come or did we get people to
spend more money?
>> So same same store sales. So success is
measured in that local market with that
specific store.
>> Same store sales or comp sales basically
means any restaurants that have been
open more than call it 365 days. So you
know inorganic year-over-year growth.
>> Okay. All right. Cool. Man, I have so
many questions. I don't even care. The
listeners, some people listen, they're
like, "This guy doesn't know anything."
He asked the most basic questions
>> or come with us on the tour.
>> All right, let's go. So, you have, let's
say, let's take uh Buger. We I used to
work at a startup and every Tuesday
morning we got Burgers and it was like
the big the big deal. Yeah, that was
back in the day.
>> But I chill into that used to cuz that's
that's my job.
>> Oh, well, this is what I meant to say to
you. Actually, I I made a note on this.
It it is funny because one timeless
thing that I got from you and we're
feeling this in our own business. I
think because of tech and because of AI,
it is so we always want to search for
the next cool thing, the next big
channel, the next viral Tik Tok video.
But I love what you said about your last
company where I in B2B we would just
call that close lost, right? It's like
these people used to spend money with
us. They didn't. The whole game is
getting customers. Let's go find out why
those people don't. And you the the the
level of things you can learn from that
that influence how you do marketing is
like so I love I love like bringing back
to the simple lessons, right? So, so how
do you how do you get people to the
individual? How do you do marketing at
like the brand level that then drives
people into the individual stores? There
was a there's a Buger's Bagels in
Coolage Corner in Brookline,
Massachusetts, where I used to live.
>> Yeah.
>> How do we move the needle on that store?
>> That's such a layered question, but high
level at the end of the day, the job is
driving we're building a brand over time
and we're driving sales overnight. And
so, we're we're building out a marketing
calendar that's doing both of those
things, right? So, we have top of funnel
awareness.
>> Oh, I like that. That's a bar. Brand
overtime, sales overnight. And I'm ask
this is and I'll shut up in a second,
but the the the reason why I'm asking
this is because one of the things that
comes up all the time in in B2B in our
world is like balancing the direct
response like balancing like closing
deals now and building a brand. And and
we we have this concept that like those
two things have to compete each other,
but I like talking to consumer marketers
because it's it's so obvious that that
they don't. and you you talk about how
those two things integrate. Okay, I'm
not gonna just interrupt you. Keep
going.
>> We get into marketing because we're
brand builders. And so really at the end
of the day, I do the sales overnight
stuff so that I keep my job, but my real
heart is also building a brand for the
long term. So if I do the sales stuff
overnight, they let me stay. And then,
you know, in my in my spare time, I get
to think about like how do we actually
build this for the next 30 years. Um,
and to your point about like, you know,
the life cycle. What's interesting about
the restaurant spaces, historically,
it's been a mostly cash business for
many, many decades. And I call those
unknown diners. You don't know anything
about them. They're faceless
transactions. I can tell you what my
average check is at the end of the day.
I can tell you how many peoplea came in.
I can tell you what was on that ticket,
but I can't tell you longitudinally, you
know, it was Dave and he comes every
Tuesday. And that has been the challenge
for restaurant marketing for a long time
until loyalty came around. And so that's
the thing that I always want to remind
people about loyalty is people get all
distracted about loyalty and discounts.
And all the reason for loyalty is known
diner data straight up. And so you're
always trying to get as many people into
your loyalty program because you're
learning from your who are your heaviest
users, your infrequent users. All of
those insights are informing how we're
building the marketing calendar. but
also, you know, informing our life cycle
marketing and how we're approaching SMS
and push and, you know, to your point,
direct mail. So, how do I get to sales
in that Massachusetts location? Well,
part of it is with loyalty, I'm able to
glean insights about what's unique to
people in that market and, you know,
build campaigns that are both thinking
about the overall brand, but also, you
know, some local marketing, too. So
there may be tactics where we're
focusing on like, hey, we have an
opportunity to grow awareness in this
market. Well, how do we get into the
community? How, you know, should we be
sponsoring 5Ks and you end every 5K with
a bagel? So, it's a balance of all of
those different tactics, which I'm sure
is um, you know, not unique to B toC.
>> And how do you how do how do you in in
in that example, like do you have a do
you have a team? Are you doing this all
by yourself? 15 that covers like these
these certain areas where
you know cuz you you have hundreds of
locations around how how do you actually
go in I get I get it like conceptually
but how do you actually go and do the
work there? It's interesting because
I've now had the benefit of working at a
few different organizations and they all
do it differently, you know. So, like
when I was at Taco Bell, it was all
national marketing. You know,
McDonald's, I never worked there, but I
can tell you like local store marketing
is a huge part of their business.
Chick-fil-A, local store marketing,
Raisin Canes, local store marketing. So,
there's brands that have decided, I'll
focus on building a brand nationally or
I do it kind of DMA by DMA. There's no
right answer. you kind of have to figure
out what's right. But it is hard to do
both really well. And I think that's the
challenge I'm facing here is I really
focused on local store marketing at Dig
In because it was 30 to 40 locations. So
it was it was easier to do. It's how
it's how Chipotle scaled their business
really was storeby store. Um and now I'm
in an organization to your point, we're
we're nearing a thousand locations and I
don't have a local store marketing team.
And so what I'm doing is really focusing
on the, you know, the the big rocks,
we'll call it, like the things that are
going to move the needle nationally, but
then identifying like what are some key
areas where if we just drill down like a
lot of it is just 8020, like you know,
what are the five bottom performing
markets and like how could I take a
toolbox and bring that down to the
local,
>> right? Yeah, that's so true. That's so
true. like the sometimes it's like
things are working well. The marketing
almost you just need to get out of the
way and just have like a this you just
need a sign outside the door that says
like you know bagels here like now open.
You don't you don't there's probably
lots of places where you don't not every
place requires your same amount of
effort. I think about the same thing in
my business right now. I could make a
list of 100 things but they're not all
equally as important. That's pretty
good. That's going really well over
there. Like don't touch that. It's it's
these things. What's the makeup of your
like team today?
>> Yeah. Um, so I have a creative services
team. So we do some of our creative
in-house. And to your point, I think,
you know, we're hitting an inflection
point where we want more creative, more
versioning, and we're trying to figure
out what tools can support that team.
And then I have what's like culinary and
menu. So we have a head chef, right? And
so we're constantly building out a
pipeline of product innovation. In our
world, that is bagels and coffee
>> and consume. So, so does a is the head
chef like a marketing function that
reports into marketing?
>> Wow.
>> Yeah. And so,
>> damn, we need that in our world. Let's
make the CTO, let's have all the product
organization report into marketing.
That's what I like.
>> So, yeah, he gets to dream up all the
fun stuff. And then, you know, we have a
marketing team that supports him from uh
like research and and guest validation.
We'll throw things into a test and and
see how it performs and scale from
there.
um loyalty, you know, life cycle
marketing, um social, uh who am I
missing? Um I feel like those are kind
of the primary functions within my team.
Yeah.
>> And then like how do you do do you think
about splitting the work? Like social
would be a good example of that. Like
there's like the micro level of social,
which is like we're running targeted ads
to people in those certain geos around
those stores. But then there's like the
macro brand level. We're creating fun,
compelling, engaging content at at the
at the brand level. Do you does each
team like do you do you split those that
that type of thinking?
>> I wish I had the resources to do that,
but I don't. And so it is really
>> that's the reality, right? And so it's
about getting clever in terms of like
how how can we tap into external
partners to help us to do those things
best. it's hard to do all of those
things well internally. Um, and so it
really part of joining this organization
has been like building out an ecosystem
of partners that we can kind of plug in
and um that scale with us as as needed.
>> One thought that I I want to see if I
could validate with you just get your
opinion. You've you've worked at, you
know, you've held marketing leadership
roles around across a bunch of different
brands in restaurant marketing. I've
been saying this thing lately that like
I think that everything in marketing
does work or has worked or or someone
has an example for every because
everyone right now is like everything is
dead but then everyone's like no
outbound does work for us, email does
work, ABM works. My view on marketing is
like that every company has different
ingredients.
>> Uhhuh.
>> And so you you just saying like I wish I
had those resources. I just I love guard
rails in marketing like so like yeah no
we can't do that. I don't like when I
don't like when you you could do a
thousand things. I like being told like,
"Nope, we can't actually we don't have
the budget. We actually can attract A+
talent right now. We kind of have to
build a team of like maybe undrafted
free agents or like C players that we're
going to train into A players." Have you
Have you seen that across their
companies where like every every brand
is different, the founder is different,
the market is different, the fun job in
marketing is figuring out like what
which recipe can I make with these
ingredients?
>> Oh my gosh. Yeah. I think, you know,
probably one of my earliest mistakes is
thinking that you can just take a
playbook from one company and apply it
to the next. And what I've had to learn
from moving to organizations,
>> where did you what was the example
there? What did you learn?
>> I went from Taco Bell to Burger King.
And Taco Bell, you know, I think I was
just naive and I'm like Taco Bell is a
fantastic place to work. um so guest
obsessed,
excellent processes and frameworks and
so I joined Burger King was really
brought there to bring some of that
thinking to um to Burger King. But you
don't just like say hey here's how we
did it elsewhere and and all of a sudden
everybody just agrees and starts working
that way. And so I've I've hit a lot of
roadblocks in terms of like well if the
team has not grown up in that culture
like can they apply those learnings you
know so um so that was a journey of like
do we have the right people in the right
seats if this is truly like where we
want to take this brand and other things
that were different about those
businesses is that Taco Bell is built
off of LTO's to your point like nuggets
right like every six weeks you're
launching something so that's a whole
different muscle in terms of your like
rapid iteration failing fast like it
it's it's cultural it it it touches
>> that that's a that's embedded that that
is the brand that's a part of the brand
that is how they operate
>> is in their DNA right and then I joined
an organization that and I and I
realized oh actually we need to do the
exact opposite here which is like we
actually just need to sell the whopper
we need to focus on the core there was
like core equities that had been
forgotten about because we were getting
distracted with other LTO's but Taco
Bell is the interesting choice voice it.
People choose it because they want a
departure from burgers and fries. And so
people expect that brand to be bringing
like what's the fun way that they're
using those same five ingredients
differently. And what actually the
Whopper was built on was for many years
the b the Whopper was like the number
one burger in America. For all I know,
it could still be. And so it was about
like actually we just need to remind
people that they love that. So you may
have heard the jingle. That was like
some of the work that came out of um
that insight in recent years. So uh it
took me a while to realize like you know
you don't just take what worked
elsewhere. You got to take a beat and
figure out is that right for the brand
the consumer and even just the culture
of how people there work the DNA of the
organization.
>> Yeah. You um you asked about you you
mentioned this phrase like guest guest
experience and
it's my podcast. I can ask whatever I
want. Right. Uh my experience as a
consumer I've always wanted to ask
someone like you this. Do does the
market do you own like the instore
experience? Because here's an example,
right? I see an ad for Chipotle and my
daughter was she's eight and she was
just commenting this. We were watching
the Super Bowl and she's like, "Dad,
that's not what Chipotle looks like in
real life." You know, like the way the
food looks on the commercial. And you
could probably say this about about any
brand. There are some places that do a
great job. My my friends and I growing
up, we used to play basketball, go work
out, and we go to this one Subway. And
the one Subway we went to was amazing.
That Subway was better than the other
Subway because I don't know, maybe their
model is franchise owned and the person
who owned that like it was better. But I
go to a random Chipotle here in Vermont
and it like sucks and the food sucks and
it kind of stinks in there and it's
messy. That impacts the whole brand
reputation. Does does Mark do you own
that in some way? How do you and how do
you control that? And doesn't that make
you un like the marketers that listen to
this show, we don't have to deal with
that. we don't have to actually deal
with people walking into our store and
like getting a plate of slop like
>> right I don't own it I have an
operations team that owns it and so we
work really closely together but the
great thing is there are lots of tools
for us to have really constructive
conversations around that experience the
number one being one being Google
reviews so one thing that you should
knowing
marketing what was that
>> I said that's an amazing source of truth
for both sides right
>> and so if you've ever left a review, I
guarantee you people are in a room,
reading those reviews, talking about it,
figuring out how we're going to do
something differently. And so at scale,
you start to see themes, right? It's
just like any other data point. What are
your average fivestar reviews? How is
that trend or what are your average
reviews? How is that trending?
leveraging AI to extract themes and
using that to partner with ops to say,
you know, we will we will never deliver
an experience that from a marketing
standpoint that exceeds the instore
experience. So, we always want to make
sure that we're not driving people into
a store that can't live up to that
experience. So, we work very closely
together to try and make sure that we
are creating a seamless, consistent
experience at every single location. And
there are a lot of variables to your
point. There's franchise versus company
own. Maybe the GM, you know, quit. Maybe
three people didn't show up today. The
truck didn't show up with the bagel,
right? Whatever the case may be with the
dough. So, anyways, yes, that is
>> Yeah, it's so grass is always greener.
Like, you know, we we just most of the
people are listening, we're dealing with
software, you know, it's like you you
you got a lot of people. There's a lot
more people people challenges in your in
your industry, right? just different
different challenges
but felt the same really.
>> Um what else before we wrap? Anything
that I should have asked you or you want
to like riff on before we sign off? And
I'm not meaning to rush you off, but I
just I found that this is often a
helpful question for someone that I, you
know, didn't know before. Like what's
something I should have talked to you
about?
>> Well, I'm curious what your relationship
is with bagels. Like what's your order?
I'm going to take an advantage for like
a focus.
>> All right, I got you. This is great.
This is exciting because uh you know we
need more we need more personality
personal driven content. So my there is
a fantastic bagel place here in Vermont
low in the town that I live locally
owned business uh Burlington Burlington
Bagel Burlington Bagel Bakery the triple
B tripleB and uh there's maybe I think
there's two locations here and what they
do well so first I'll tell you
everything uh cuz I actually love this
restaurant and I use it as an example so
many places have gone to postco I I
personal op I think and that's that's
nobody's fault It's impossible. Like
everything's expensive. It must be, you
know, talent, retention, all that is
like a whole world that I can't imagine.
So, I'm not I'm not like I say this with
no judgment. It's just like I feel like
the quality of a lot of these, you know,
quick serve, what what do you call them?
Fast like fast casual like
>> casuals, QSRs. Yeah.
>> Yeah. I feel like the quality of them
has gone down. This place though, even
if there's a line out the door, you're
going to get your food in 10 minutes.
They got they got like a bunch of
college like younger healthylook smiling
college people. Like it matters a lot
when you step in the door. Hey hey hey
are are you are you been helped right
now? Like I feel like there's a the
customer service aspect of it is is
great. And um my go-to order is and this
is also at Bugers. My bagel is that the
cheddar I like the cheddar jalapeno
bagel.
>> I'll get a sausage, egg, and cheese on a
cheddar jalapeno bagel or maybe a
cheddar dill. They have a triple B,
which is what they call it. Comes with a
egg and a hash brown. That's That's
always I'm never My wife is more of the
like if you go to the bagel place, get
me a everything with veggie, cream
cheese. I want a That's a snack to me. I
want a meal. I want the I need a
sausage, egg, and cheese, bacon, egg,
and cheese. That that type of thing. And
then I'm usually going to get a coffee
on the way out. And that's a great way
to to start the day. Big big bagel fan.
>> Okay. Well, if you ever chat with their
team, I encourage you to ask them a
little bit about like their their tech
challenges because it's an interesting
it's an interesting space, especially as
a small operator, how much they have to
leverage these martekch tools when they
really just want to be making bagels
would be my guess. So,
>> I know, but I think about this, this is
my sick mind as a marketer and just
operator. Like I do think about a lot of
the small businesses particularly in the
restaurant world just areas where
technology could could help but it's
also this it must feel like this
neverending thing because it's like yeah
you got to be up at 3 in the morning
making the bagels like you don't have
time to like yeah sure marketing guy
like Claude would be great but like I
got to make sure we have enough cheddar
jalapeno bagels today or the the bald
pod bald guy podcast host is going to
leave me a bad Google review. Like
>> that's the reality of it. I know, but
think about like they who knows how
they're doing their inventory of
deciding like how many cheddar jalapeno
bagels they're going to make for the
day. Are they doing that off of the back
of some guy who's been there 30 years
and just intuitively knows we sell more
of them on Saturdays than we do on
Mondays? Like, you know, just like,
>> you know, we could have a whole another
30 minutes just
>> that, right? So, so you're saying like
that could be a simple data driven like
could we could I just get like a CSV of
the bagel orders from today and could we
just look at that week over week or are
we even doing that? We don't know.
anything if you could if you could wave
a magic wand and and solve or if I if I
could give you one if I was the
marketing genie you had to rub my my
bald head and I could give you one
marketing wish to what would it be?
>> My goodness. Um,
>> and let's say at at in your role right
now as a as a CMO,
>> I mean really at integrations, it sounds
so technical, but I'm surprised how many
things could be operated more seamlessly
if we could just figure out how to get
different systems to talk to each other.
>> Isn't that Isn't that kind of what
they're pitching with AC with with AI
and like MCPs and like all this stuff is
like could we have all of this stuff
talk to each other and then we can run
our business on top of that layer?
optimistic. I feel like it's going to
happen, but I'm anxious for it.
>> All right, Jessica Serrano, thank you so
much for coming and hanging out with me.
Oh, by the way, I didn't ask you the one
question on your LinkedIn. Um, you're
sitting with you're sitting interviewing
Gary Vee in like a a ferris wheel or
something like that or is that a like a
cabana? Where what's the story there?
>> That was a yacht. Um, that was at
>> Oh, excuse me. Sorry. How dare I suggest
>> not my yacht. It was the Vayner.
>> The Vayner yacht.
>> Yeah. I know that was at Possible this
um conference that happens every year in
April in Miami and and I was living in
Miami at the time so it's actually not
far from my home but um yeah I had an
opportunity to sit down and and talk to
Gary Vee which was fun because I think
he he has some good provocations around
the role of social you know I think the
biggest thing that um he challenges me
to think is if it has not gone viral
organically you should not be putting
paid behind it
>> this is I don't care how people feel
that some people don't like Gary because
of the way he speaks, but if you listen
to the things he says, that is so true.
Especially in this era, like do you know
what they would have k like the the era
of like the 1950 1960s mad men? Like to
be able to have everything organic first
and then be able to like have you have
you seen his example of the Mirillax
video that they did?
>> I haven't.
>> Okay. I don't know why you would have.
Sorry. You're like, "Yeah, I love that
ad. That's my favorite ad." But they
made a, you know, they just made a he
just had people in his office make an
organic like it was like roommates and
like there's a whiteboard on the fridge
and it was like poop chart and like you
know Dave had like pooped three more
times than everyone else and the secret
was like mirax but he was like that ad
took someone on my team like we made
that video organically in like you know
1 minute posted it organically it popped
off and so then the next step there was
like yeah let's let's run this ad paid
we do this now with LinkedIn for us is
huge because of B2B and targeting and so
basically We we do everything through my
personal page. Like I'll write a post
and then we will then turn that post
into paid because of the thought
leadership ad which just runs that. So I
love that.
>> Yeah. I mean that's a wish is I I wish
that more social marketers had the
courage to just throw stuff out there. I
think there's so an instinct towards
curation an old instinct and it's like
just throw it out there. Do bad stuff.
Do you're not going to know what's good
unless you're like at a high level of
volume. So, you know, easier said than
done, but
>> are do you all are is your team all
remote?
>> No, we are based in Denver. Yeah. So,
we're
>> in Denver. Do you live in Denver? You
live in Denver?
>> I moved to Denver for this job. Yeah.
And
>> Wow.
>> I think with restaurants there's, you
know, we figured out how to work
remotely for many years, but at some
point when you're eating food, you got
to like be in a place where you can get
in the kitchen together. So, um
>> Well, that's what I was going to say
like that's the most amazing ingredient
for in content, isn't it? Like
>> Yeah. Just honestly, the the best
content is in the bakeries. It's in the
restaurants. It's like, let's not sell
you like, you know, food styled food on
a plate. Like, let's come with me at 4
a.m. to go and bake these bagels, you
know? So, um, still early on that
journey of of evolving that content, but
had a lot of success with that at Dig
in. And I think that's where content is
going, right? People want to see the
behind the scenes. They don't want to
see the overly manufactured stuff.
>> I think that's going to be even more
true now with AI. I was ranting on this
this morning. Like there's this, you
know, the whole like dead internet
theory.
>> Yes.
>> Like if all the comments are AI, if all
the images are fake, if all the images
are stock photos, like what? Who do you
believe?
>> I know. We come full circle to the Neo
Post.
>> Yeah. Oh my god, that's amazing. Yeah.
All right, Jessica Serrano, thank you so
much.
>> When you, you know, when how do you feel
about answering machines in today's day
and age? so real. It's so true. Thank
you for sharing your your thoughts.
>> I I I'm I'm so sick of love songs,
honestly. Uh I'm happy. I I don't need
them anymore. I'm happily in love. I'm
married. I got kids. I don't need I
don't need Neo anymore. That was the
important part. You know,
>> the Bad Bunny.
>> Yeah, we cu some Bad Bunny. Yeah, that's
right. That's where that's where we
started. Uh on the real talk about
answering machines though, my kids, we
got a landline. The landline is back.
The landline is back. I am long
landline. They keep asking me to use my
phone to FaceTime a friend. I'm like,
look, I'm not respectfully. I'm not
texting that guy to ask if you could
FaceTime this dad through my phone. And
so like the landline has a purpose. You
need to call someone's house.
>> Yeah.
>> The feeling of calling someone's house
and being like, "Oh my god, the dad. Oh,
please don't."
>> Exactly. Everybody needs to know the
fear, especially talk about B2B sales.
You know, you want to go You need to
know the fear of having to talk to my my
dad to get to me. I think that's a long
one.
>> I'm all set with that if I never have to
experience that again. Exactly. You're
like, "Please don't answer. Please don't
answer. Please." I would just hang up. I
would hang up. If you I would Please
Please let her answer. Please let her
answer.
>> I had a terrifying dad. So, I feel like
not enough people know that feeling.
>> I I Yes. I I I could only wish to be
that uh because I'm sure it was very
helpful. Uh Jessica Serrano, you rock.
Uh find find her on LinkedIn. Uh, we'll
I want you to send her lots of notes and
I want her to be like, "Man, you
actually do have people that listen to
your podcast."
>> Send me lyrics.
>> Find her.
>> Yes.
>> Send her lyrics. Send her notes. Bad
Bunny, Neo. You can, you know, share
stories about intimidating fathers.
Whatever you want. Great to have you on
the pod. I hope I'll see you again at
some point. Thanks for coming and doing
this. Yeah.